(7). How to install React Js on Windows, linux Operating System? How
to install NPM and How to check version of NPM?

Windows:

Step 1: Install Node.js and NPM

    1. Go to the Node.js download page and download the Windows installer (.msi) file.
    2. Run the installer and follow the prompts to install Node.js.
    3. Make sure to select the option to install NPM (Node Package Manager) during the installation process.
    4. Once the installation is complete, open a new Command Prompt or PowerShell window to verify that Node.js and NPM are installed correctly.

    Verify Node.js and NPM installation

        1. Open a new Command Prompt or PowerShell window.
        2. Type `node -v` and press Enter to check the version of Node.js installed.
        3. Type `npm -v` and press Enter to check the version of NPM installed.

Step 2: Install Create React App

    1.Open a new Command Prompt or PowerShell window.
    2.Type the following command to install Create React App globally:
    --npm install -g create-react-app

Step 3: Create a new React project

    Open a new Command Prompt or PowerShell window.
    Type the following command to create a new React project:
    --npx create-react-app my-app

Step 4: Change into the project directory

    Type the following command to change into the project directory:
    --cd my-app

Step 5: Start the development server

    Type the following command to start the development server:
    --npm start


Linux:

Step 1: Install npm
    Login to your server as a sudo user and run the following command:
    -- sudo apt install npm

    Verify the version of npm installed using the command:
    --npm --version

    The installation of npm also installs Node.js. Confirm the version of Node installed using the command:
    --node --version

Step 2: Install Create React App Utility
    Install Create React App using NPM:
    --npx create-react-app my-app

Step 3: Go to the Project Directory and Start the Development Server
    Navigate to the project directory:
    --cd my-app

    Start the development server:
    npm start

    This will open your default web browser at http://localhost:3000/, where you should see the React logo.

Installing NPM and Checking its Version

NPM (Node Package Manager) is installed along with Node.js. To check the version of NPM, run the following command:

-- npm --version